---
layout: post
title: "EWiLi'14, The 4th Embedded Operating Systems Workshop"
date: 2014-11-13 16:25:06 -0000
comments: false
---
13 - 14 November 2014, Lisboa, Portugal

EWiLi, the embedded operating system workshop, aims at presenting state-of-the-art research, experimentations, significant and original realizations that focus on the design and implementation of embedded operating systems in both academic and industrial worlds.

# News:
The keynotes slides are available:

* **Keynote 1**: *Compositional Scheduling and Real-Time Virtualization* by Oleg Sokolsky
* **Keynote 2**: *Using Android for industrial / Real-Time applications* by Pierre Ficheux
* **Keynote 3**: *RTEMS by EDISOFT* by Helder Silva

EWiLi proceedings are [available online](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1291).

All accepted papers will be published in the ACM SIGBED Review (ISSN: 1551-3688) *Special Interest Group on Embedded Systems*.

# Program:

## Thursday November 13th:

08:45 AM / Opening and welcome message.

09:00 AM - 10:30 AM / **Keynote 1**: *Compositional scheduling and real-time virtualization* by Dr. Oleg Sokolsky, Research Associate Professor with the Department of Computer and Information Science of University of Pennsylvania.

  **Abstract**: We will revisit the theory of compositional scheduling and its role in ensuring temporal isolation between components in real-time systems. We will then discuss an implementation of the compositional scheduling framework in RT-Xen, an extension of the popular Xen virtualization platform with real-time scheduling and timing isolation between domains. We will consider the challenges of real-time virtualization on uniprocessor and multicore platforms, and present design decisions made in RT-Xen to address these challenges.

10:30 AM - 11:00 AM / Coffee break and poster session.

11:00 AM - 12:30 PM / Real-Time Operating Systems session:

* *Automotive Real-time Operating Systems: A Model-Based Configuration Approach*, Georg Macher, Muesluem Atas, Eric Armengaud and Christian Kreiner.
* *Microkernel Dedicated for Dynamic Partial Reconfiguration on ARM-FPGA Platform*, Tian Xia, Jean-Christophe Prevotet and Fabienne Nouvel.
* *A Program State Machine Based Virtual Processing Model in SystemC*, Tim Schmidt, Kim Gruettner, Rainer Doemer and Achim Rettberg.
12:30 PM - 02:00 PM / Lunch and poster session.

02:00 PM - 2:45 PM / **Keynote 2**: *Android for industrial and RT applications*, by Mr. Pierre FICHEUX, CTO, OpenWide, France.

  **Abstract**: Android is one the most "free" operating system used these days as more than 80 % of smartphones runs it. One can call it a "Linux based OS" as it runs a Linux kernel but it's not "another Linux distribution". We will introduce the way to compile Android from sources (AOSP) and use it on an cheap embedded board (Beagle Bone Black). Finally we'll evaluate Android capabilities regarding Linux RT patches such as PREEMPT-RT or Xenomai.

03:00 PM - 04:30 PM / Memory Hierarchy and Performance session:

* *Revisiting Read-ahead Efficiency for Raw NAND Flash Storage in Embedded Linux*, Pierre Olivier, Jalil Boukhobza and Eric Senn.
* *Specific Read Only Data Management for Memory Hierarchy Optimization*, Gregory Vaumourin, Thomas Dombek, Alexandre Guerre and Denis Barthou.
* *A light-weight compression method for Java Card technology*, Massimiliano Zilli, Wolfgang Raschke, Reinhold Weiss, Johannes Loinig and Christian Steger.

04:30 PM - 05:00 PM / Coffee break and poster session.

05:00 PM - 06:00 PM / Energy Efficiency in Embedded Systems session:

* *On the Energy Efficiency of Parallel Multi-core vs Hardware Accelerated HD Video Decoding*, Yahia Benmoussa, Jalil Boukhobza, Eric Senn and Benazzouz Djamel.
* *Minimizing Energy Under Performance Constraints on Embedded Platforms - Resource Allocation Heuristics for Homogeneous and Single-ISA Heterogeneous Multi-Cores*, Connor Imes and Henry Hoffmann.

## Friday November 14th:

09:30 AM - 10:30 AM / **Keynote 3**: *RTEMS by EDISOFT*, presented by Helder Silva, Embedded Systems Manager (Aeronautics & Space Systems Division) at EDISOFT, Portugal.

  **Abstract**: RTEMS CENTRE has been an initiative, since 2006, to create in Europe a support and maintenance centre to the RTEMS real-time operating system. Since the beginning, RTEMS CENTRE’s team has built technical expertise in the real-time system, has developed several tools to support the operating system, facilitated the qualification of the RTEMS, according the Galileo Software Standards for a software development assurance level “B”, also known as RTEMS by EDISOFT, and is currently supporting several space missions of the European Space Agency (ESA). RTEMS is currently considered an ESA building block and is already flying in the Galileo FOC satellites.

10:30 AM - 11:00 AM / Coffee break and poster session.

11:00 AM - 12:30 PM / Real-Time Systems session:

* *Constant Bandwidth Server Revisited*, Luca Abeni, Giuseppe Lipari and Juri Lelli.
* *Adaptive Resource Synchronization In Hierarchical Real-Time Systems*, Tom Springer, Steffen Peter and Tony Givargis.
* *The Wi-STARK Architecture For Resilient Real-Time Wireless Communications*, Jeferson Luiz Rodrigues Souza and José Rufino.


**Accepted posters**:

* *Domain Polymorph Components For Explicit Opaque Borders in Hierarchical Heterogeneous Models*, Mohamed Feredj and Frédéric Boulanger.
* *Integration of Cache Related Preemption Delay Analysis in Priority Assignment Algorithm*, Hai Nam Tran, Frank Singhoff, Stéphane Rubini and Jalil Boukhobza.
* *Exploiting Non-intrusive Monitoring in Real-Time Embedded Operating Systems*, Ricardo C. Pinto and José Rufino.

**Workshop contact**: Jalil Boukhobza `boukhobza@univ-brest.fr`

**Website**: Pierre Olivier `pierre.olivier@univ-ubs.fr`
